Residence, contact and other orders with respect to children
) In this Act —
“a contact order” means an order requiring the person with whom a child
lives, or is to live, to allow the child to visit or stay with the person named
in the order, or for that person and the child otherwise to have contact with
each other;
“a prohibited steps order” means an order that no step which could be taken
by a parent in meeting his parental responsibility for a child, and which is of
a kind specified in the order, shall be taken by any person without the consent
of the court;
“a residence order” means an order settling the e arrangements to be made
as to the person with whom a child is to live; and “a specific issue order” means an order giving directions for the purpose
of determining a specific question which has arisen, or which may arise, in
connection with any aspect of parental responsibility for a child.
) In this Act “a section 8 order” means any of the orders mentioned in subsection (1)
and any order varying or discharging such an order.
) For the purposes of this Act “family proceedings” means any proceedings—
(a) under the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court in relation to children; and
(b) under the enactments mentioned in subsection (4),
but does not include proceedings on an application for leave under section 100(3).
The enactments are—
(a) Parts I, II and IV of this Act;
(b) the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973;
(c) the Domestic Violence and Matrimonial Proceedings Act 1976;
(d) the Adoption Act 1976;
(e) the Domestic Proceedings and Magistrates' Courts Act 1978;
(f) sections 1 and 9 of the Matrimonial Homes Act 1983;
(g) Part III of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984.
Restrictions on making section 8 orders
No court shall make any section 8 order, other than a residence order, with respect to
a child who is in the care of a local authority.
No application may be made by a local authority for a residence order or contact order
and no court shall make such an order in favour of a local authority.
A person who is, or was at any time within the last six months, a local authority foster
parent of a child may not apply for leave to apply for a section 8 order with respect
to the child unless—
(a) he has the consent of the authority;
(b) he is a relative of the child; or
(c) the child has lived with him for at least three years preceding the application.
The period of three years mentioned in subsection (3)(c) need not be continuous but
must have begun not more than five years before the making of the application.
) No court shall exercise its powers to make a specific issue order or prohibited steps
order—
(a) with a view to achieving a result which could be achieved by making a
residence or contact order; or
(b) in any way which is denied to the High Court (by section 100(2)) in the
exercise of its inherent jurisdiction with respect to children.
) No court shall make any section 8 order which is to have effect for a period which
will end after the child has reached the age of sixteen unless it is satisfied that the
circumstances of the case are exceptional.
No court shall make any section 8 order, other than one varying or discharging such an
order, with respect to a child who has reached the age of sixteen unless it is satisfied
that the circumstances of the case are exceptional.
