 Welfare of the child
 When a court determines any question with respect to
the upbringing of a child; or
the administration of a child’s property or the application of any income
arising from it,
the child’s welfare shall be the court’s paramount consideration.

 In any proceedings in which any question with respect to the upbringing of a child
arises, the court shall have regard to the general principle that any delay in determining
the question is likely to prejudice the welfare of the child.
 In the circumstances mentioned in subsection  a court shall have regard in particular
to—
the ascertainable wishes and feelings of the child concerned (considered in
the light of his age and understanding);
his physical, emotional and educational needs;
 the likely effect on him of any change in his circumstances;
 his age, sex, background and any characteristics of his which the court
considers relevant;
 any harm which he has suffered or is at risk of suffering;
 how capable each of his parents, and any other person in relation to whom the
court considers the question to be relevant, is of meeting his needs;
 the range of powers available to the court under this Act in the proceedings
in question.

The circumstances are that—
 the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge a section 8 order,
and the making, variation or discharge of the order is opposed by any party
to the proceedings; or
 the court is considering whether to make, vary or discharge an order under
Part IV.
Where a court is considering whether or not to make one or more orders under this
Act with respect to a child, it shall not make the order or any of the orders unless it
considers that doing so would be better for the child than making no order at all.

	
Where a child’s father and mother were married to each other at the time of his birth,
they shall each have parental responsibility for the child.
Where a child’s father and mother were not married to each other at the time of his
birth—
 the mother shall have parental responsibility for the child;
 the father shall not have parental responsibility for the child, unless he acquires
it in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
References in this Act to a child whose father and mother were, or (as the case may
be) were not, married to each other at the time of his birth must be read with section 1
of the Family Law Reform Act 1987 (which extends their meaning).
The rule of law that a father is the natural guardian of his legitimate child is abolished.
More than one person may have parental responsibility for the same child at the same
time.
A person who has parental responsibility for a child at any time shall not cease to have
that responsibility solely because some other person subsequently acquires parental
responsibility for the child.
Where more than one person has parental responsibility for a child, each of them may
act alone and without the other (or others) in meeting that responsibility; but nothing
in this Part shall be taken to affect the operation of any enactment which requires the
consent of more than one person in a matter affecting the child.
The fact that a person has parental responsibility for a child shall not entitle him to
act in any way which would be incompatible with any order made with respect to the
child under this Act.
A person who has parental responsibility for a child may not surrender or transfer any
part of that responsibility to another but may arrange for some or all of it to be met
by one or more persons acting on his behalf.
The person with whom any such arrangement is made may himself be a person who
already has parental responsibility for the child concerned.
The making of any such arrangement shall not affect any liability of the person making
it which may arise from any failure to meet any part of his parental responsibility for
the child concerned.
