Guardians: revocation and disclaimer
) An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) revokes an earlier such appointment
(including one made in an unrevoked will or codicil) made by the same person in
respect of the same child, unless it is clear (whether as the result of an express provision
in the later appointment or by any necessary implication) that the purpose of the later
appointment is to appoint an additional guardian.
An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (including one made in an unrevoked will
or codicil) is revoked if the person who made the appointment revokes it by a written
and dated instrument which is signed—
(a) by him; or
(b) at his direction, in his presence and in the presence of two witnesses who each
attest the signature.
) An appointment under section 5(3) or (4) (other than one made in a will or codicil) is
revoked if, with the intention of revoking the appointment, the person who made it—
(a) destroys the instrument by which it was made; or
(b) has some other person destroy that instrument in his presence.
) For the avoidance of doubt, an appointment under section 5(3) or (4) made in a will
or codicil is revoked if the will or codicil is revoked.
) A person who is appointed as a guardian under section 5(3) or (4) may disclaim his
appointment by an instrument in writing signed by him and made within a reasonable
time of his first knowing that the appointment has taken effect.
Where regulations are made by the Lord Chancellor prescribing the manner in which
such disclaimers must be recorded, no such disclaimer shall have effect unless it is
recorded in the prescribed manner.
Any appointment of a guardian under section 5 may be brought to an end at any time
by order of the court—
(a) on the application of any person who has parental responsibility for the child;
(b) on the application of the child concerned, with leave of the court; or
in any family proceedings, if the court considers that it should be brought to
an end even though no application has been made.
Welfare reports
A court considering any question with respect to a child under this Act may—
(a) ask a probation officer; or
(b) ask a local authority to arrange for—
(i) an officer of the authority; or
(ii) such other person (other than a probation officer) as the authority
considers appropriate,
to report to the court on such matters relating to the welfare of that child as
are required to be dealt with in the report.
The Lord Chancellor may make regulations specifying matters which, unless the court
orders otherwise, must be dealt with in any report under this section.
The report may be made in writing, or orally, as the court requires.
Regardless of any enactment or rule of law which would otherwise prevent it from
doing so, the court may take account of—
(a) any statement contained in the report; and
(b) any evidence given in respect of the matters referred to in the report,
in so far as the statement or evidence is, in the opinion of the court, relevant to the
question which it is considering.
It shall be the duty of the authority or probation officer to comply with any request
for a report under this section.
