2(1)If, on an application by a person who has reached the age of eighteen, it appears to the court—
(a)that the applicant is, will be or (if an order were made under this paragraph) would be receiving instruction at an educational establishment or undergoing training for a trade, profession or vocation, whether or not while in gainful employment; or
(b)that there are special circumstances which justify the making of an order under this paragraph,the court may make one or both of the orders mentioned in sub-paragraph (2).
(2)The orders are—
(a)an order requiring either or both of the applicant’s parents to pay to the applicant such periodical payments, for such term, as may be specified in the order;
(b)an order requiring either or both of the applicant’s parents to pay to the applicant such lump sum as may be so specified.
(3)An application may not be made under this paragraph by any person if, immediately before he reached the age of sixteen, a periodical payments order was in force with respect to him.
(4)No order shall be made under this paragraph at a time when the parents of the applicant are living with each other in the same household.
(5)An order under sub-paragraph (2)(a) may be varied or discharged by a subsequent order made on the application of any person by or to whom payments were required to be made under the previous order.
(6)In sub-paragraph (3) “periodical payments order” means an order made under—
(a)this Schedule;
(b)section 6(3) of the [1969 c. 46.] Family Law Reform Act 1969;
(c)section 23 or 27 of the [1973 c. 18.] Matrimonial Causes Act 1973;
(d)Part I of the [1978 c. 22.] Domestic Proceedings and Magistrates' Courts Act 1978,for the making or securing of periodical payments.
(7)The powers conferred by this paragraph shall be exercisable at any time.
(8)Where the court makes an order under this paragraph it may from time to time while that order remains in force make a further such order.
Duration of orders for financial relief
3(1)The term to be specified in an order for periodical payments made under paragraph 1(2)(a) or (b) in favour of a child may begin with the date of the making of an application for the order in question or any later date but—
(a)shall not in the first instance extend beyond the child’s seventeenth birthday unless the court thinks it right in the circumstances of the case to specify a later date; and
(b)shall not in any event extend beyond the child’s eighteenth birthday.
(2)Paragraph (b) of sub-paragraph (1) shall not apply in the case of a child if it appears to the court that—
(a)the child is, or will be or (if an order were made without complying with that paragraph) would be receiving instruction at an educational establishment or undergoing training for a trade, profession or vocation, whether or not while in gainful employment; or
(b)there are special circumstances which justify the making of an order without complying with that paragraph.
(3)An order for periodical payments made under paragraph 1(2)(a) or 2(2)(a) shall, notwithstanding anything in the order, cease to have effect on the death of the person liable to make payments under the order.
(4)Where an order is made under paragraph 1(2)(a) or (b) requiring periodical payments to be made or secured to the parent of a child, the order shall cease to have effect if —
(a)any parent making or securing the payments; and
(b)any parent to whom the payments are made or secured,live together for a period of more than six months.